# Streamlining the Publication of Archaeological Data for the Global South  

The EAMENA project, hosted by the School of Archaeology at Oxford, is dedicated to documenting archaeological and cultural heritage sites across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region. It collaborates with departments of antiquities and professionals from this region. While EAMENA has trained MENA professionals in site recording using the EAMENA bespoke heritage management database, publishing data and research papers in peer-reviewed journals from the database has been challenging for researchers and professionals from the MENA countries. This challenge, faced by MENA researchers and others in the Global South, was highlighted during the SSD EDI Researchers Network Event: "Decolonising and Decentring Academic Journals" (16 November 2023, St Antony’s College, Oxford). The event exposed the barriers for Global South scholars and field archaeologists in publishing their research. The complexity of digital repositories and databases for publishing research data, the lack of training on high standards required for peerreviewed journals, and limited access to data for Global South researchers have created barriers to their contributions to state-of-the-art research. Recently, the EAMENA project has developed an IT plugin that simplifies the creation of DOI-referenced data subsets from the database. This creates a solid basis for the publication of data papers and forms the initial step for publishing research papers. Now that this facility exists, we aim to leverage it by encouraging our MENA partners to use it to publish their data. While the FAIR policies are already covered by the EAMENA project, from the CARE (Collective, Authority, Responsibility, Ethical) perspective: 
- Collective: We support a collective effort by training over 200 of MENA-based professionals and integrating thousands of data entries into our project database (currently over 381,000 records in the database) 
- Authority: We are developing systems that empower local scholars by providing tools that simplify the creation of DOIreferenced datasets from these databases. 
- Responsibility: We have developed a workflow and an IT plugin that facilitates the creation of referenced datasets, laying a foundational step for publishing data papers. 
- Ethical: To address the ethical implications of inequity in academic publishing by enabling our partners in the Global South to publish their findings. The grant will help us invite one of our Jordanian partners to a workshop. The budget shortfall will be covered by EAMENA’s Cultural Protection Fund (CPF) budget for database training.